this work can be challenging and I'm
always looking for ways to make it less
challenging so I'm always thinking of
procedures concepts and techniques that
will help me when I'm at the bench and I
rely on those to help me work more
efficiently more accurately and get to
the truth of the problem as quickly as
possible so I've got an idea how to help
with flute padding and it's very simple
let me show you when checking the pads
for coverage on the flute whether you're
using a leak light or feeler gauge I
find it's really helpful to mark the
leaks right on the key and I do this
with my Sharpie pen so I found a link in
this area here and I'm marking outside
boundaries of where that leak occurs now
some people do this on a piece of paper
but I find it's less confusing to have
this written directly on the key there's
no confusion later where that leak is
I'll even go a step further and if I
have a sense of how deep that leak is
I'll write the number on the area so in
this case I've written a number 3
indicating I'm going to put a three
thousandth of an inch thick shim in that
area I could go on and mark all my pads
for that matter I might have found a
leak here and here maybe this was a
1,000 sleek this is a 2,000 over here I
found a 4,000 sneak now these marks come
off later very easily with a little
q-tip and some rubbing alcohol so this
is not in any way going to be left on
the instrument when you hand it back to
the client now that I've got my leaks
marked on the key cups I'm ready to
disassemble the instrument and put my
partial shims in where needed
I think I'll just pull off the c-sharp
and attend to that pad right now with
the key off the instruments and the
partial shim area marked on the key Cup
I'll take my sharpie once again and
continue those marks down the side of
the cup that helps me see it when I'm in
this position now so I don't have to
keep flipping it over because soon we'll
have the pad out and I don't want the
partial shims or any other full shims to
keep falling out as I'm trying to
reference this area before I leave this
area I want to mark a shim for a partial
if you will you could see I've marked a
shim that's exactly the same size
of that Niek so now I'll glue this
partial zoom to the full shim under the
pattern before I pull the pad out of the
cup I want to have a mark at the 12
o'clock point on the pad which is where
the arm of the key meets the key cup
this is a permanent mark so make it
small and it'll be mostly invisible now
let's take the pad out oh you can see
that there's already a mark at the 12
o'clock point under under the washer I
prefer to put it at the edge and I'll
explain why if that pad moves slightly
the market the center still looks more
or less at the 12 o'clock point but
towards the edge it's moved quite a bit
that little bit will make quite a
difference when we're dealing with
partial shims and we're getting very
exacting moving it back into home
position let's put a needle in the pad
and pull the pad out very good you could
see that there's a mark locating the 12
o'clock position of the shim under the
pad and we mark the full shim that's
closest to the pad and oftentimes
there's several full shims there maybe
in this case let's see yeah there's a
couple there but they're actually glued
together partial shim that's glued on
top of the full shim will ride with the
full shim wherever it goes so it's
important to have this in the right
location so that the partials in the
right location and we're going to be
gluing this partial on to this area and
likewise it's very important for this to
remain exactly where we put it and be
located
right where we wanted I'll just take a
little drop of shellac put it on the
shim and I'll carefully I'll hold the
full shim in position as I'm
manipulating the partial into position
I'll just hold it for just a moment and
then reset my pad
now I could put it back on the
instrument and check it for coverage